Sync up6 branch with master (#7040)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: swan-lake/learn-the-platform/ballerina-persist/persist-model.md

---
layout: ballerina-persist-documentation-left-nav-pages-swanlake
title: Persist Model
description: The sections gives details on the Persist Model.
keywords: ballerina, programming language, ballerina packages, persist, persist model, persist data model, persist entity type, persist simple type
permalink: /learn/ballerina-persist/persist-model/
active: persist_model
intro: The Persist module defines a mechanism to express the application's data model using the Ballerina record type. Any record type that is a subtype of the `EntityType` will be an entity in the model.
redirect_from:

> - /learn/ballerina-persist/persist-model/

Author: ```suggestion
- /learn/ballerina-persist/persist-model/
```
Same as above.

---

Within a Ballerina project, the data model should be defined in a separate bal file under the `persist` directory. This file is not considered part of the Ballerina project and is used only for the data model definition.

> ## EntityType Definition

Author: ```suggestion
## The `EntityType` definition
```

An EntityType is defined using `SimpleType` and `EntityType` fields. 

```ballerina
type SimpleType ()|boolean|int|float|decimal|string|byte[]|time:Date|time:TimeOfDay|time:Utc|time:Civil;
type EntityType record {|
   SimpleType|EntityType|EntityType[]...;
|};
```

> 1. Simple Type:  

Author: ```suggestion
### `Simple` type:  
```
Shall we make these sub-headings?

   From the data source perspective, a field of `SimpleType` contains only one value. i.e., Each `SimpleType` field maps to a field of data.

>    > *Note*: This does not support the union type of `SimpleType`. i.e., `int|string` is not supported.

Author: ```suggestion
   > *Note*: This does not support the union type of `SimpleType`( i.e., `int|string` is not supported).
```

> 2. Entity Type:  

Author: ```suggestion
2. Entity Type:  
```
Same as above.

>    An entity can contain fields of `SimpleType`, `EntityType`, or `EntityType[]`. This design uses fields of type `EntityType` or `EntityType[]` to define associations between two entities.

Author: ```suggestion
   An entity can contain fields of the `SimpleType`, `EntityType`, or `EntityType[]`. This design uses fields of type `EntityType` or `EntityType[]` to define associations between two entities.
```

> Here are some examples of subtypes of the entity type:

Author: ```suggestion
Below are some examples of subtypes of the entity type:
```

```ballerina

> // Valid 

Author: ```suggestion
// Valid.
```
Please check and fix all occurrences.

type Employee record {|
   int id; // SimpleType
   string fname; // SimpleType
   string lname; // SimpleType
   Department department; // EntityType
|};

> // Valid 

Author: ```suggestion
// This is valid.
```
Shall we specify valid what?

type Department record {|
   int id;
   string name;
   byte[] logo;
   Employee[] employees; // EntityType
|};

// Invalid
type Employee record {|
   int|string id; 
   string fname;
   string lname;
   Department department; // EntityType
|};
```
Simple Types are mapped to native data source types. Depending on the data store, the mapping may vary. Refer to the [Supported Datasources](#supported-datastores) documents to learn more about the mapping.

> ## Entity Attributes Definition

Author: ```suggestion
## Entity Attributes Definition
```
Check all titles to add them in sentence case.

Ballerina record fields are used to model the attributes of an entity. The type of the field should be a subtype of `SimpleType`.

> ### Identity Field(s)

Author: ```suggestion
### Identity Field(s)
```
Same as above.

The entity must contain at least one identity field. This field's value is used to identify each record uniquely. The identity field(s) is indicated by the `readonly` flag.

> Say type T is one of `int`, `string`, `float`, `boolean` or `decimal` types,

Author: ```suggestion
Type `T` can be one of the `int`, `string`, `float`, `boolean`, or `decimal` types as follows.
```

```ballerina
type EntityType record {|
    readonly T <fieldName>;
|} 
```

> The identity field can be a single field or a combination of multiple fields. 

Author: ```suggestion
The identity field can be a single field or a combination of multiple fields as follows.
```

```ballerina
type EntityType record {|
    readonly T <fieldName1>;
    readonly T <fieldName2>;
|} 
```

> ### Nullable Field(s)

Author: ```suggestion
### Nullable Field(s)
```
Same as above.

Say type T is a subtype of `SimpleType`, and T does not contain (),

| Field definition  |                 Semantics                  |       Examples        |   
|:-----------------:|:------------------------------------------:|:---------------------:|
|      T field      | Mapped to a non-nullable column in the DB  |        int id;        |  
|     T? field      |   Mapped to a nullable column in the DB    | string? description;  |  
|     T field?      |                Not allowed                 |           -           |  
|     T? field?     |                Not allowed                 |           -           |  

## Relationship Definition

Ballerina record fields are used to model a connection between two entities. The type of the field should be a subtype of `EntityType|EntityType?|EntityType[]`.

This design supports the following cardinalities:

> 1. One-to-one (1-1)

Author: ```suggestion
1. One-to-one (`1-1`)
```

> 2. One-to-many (1-n)

Author: ```suggestion
2. One-to-many (`1-n`)
```

The relation field is mandatory in both entities.

### One-to-one (1-1)

A 1-1 relationship is defined by a field of type `EntityType` in one entity and `EntityType?` in the other. For example, consider Car and User entities assume that a car can have only one owner and a user can own at most one car.

```ballerina
type Car record {|
   readonly int id;
   string name;
   User owner;
|};

type User record {|
   readonly int id;
   string name;
   Car? car;
|};
```

> The above entities explains the following,

Author: ```suggestion
The above entities explain the following.
```

 - A `Car` must have a `User` as the owner.
 - A `User` may or may not own a `Car`.

> The Ballerina record type generated from the above entities will be as follows,

Author: ```suggestion
The Ballerina record type generated from the above entities will be as follows.
```

```ballerina
type Car record {|
   readonly int id;
   string name;
   int ownerId;
|};

type User record {|
   readonly int id;
   string name;
|};
```

> In first record, `Car`, the `EntityType` field `owner` is taken as the owner in the 1-1 relationship and will include the foreign key of the second record, `User`.

Author: ```suggestion
In the first record (`Car`), the `EntityType` field `owner` is taken as the owner in the 1-1 relationship and will include the foreign key of the second record (`User`).
```

The default foreign key field name will be `ownerId` in the `Car` table, which refers to the identity field of the `User` table by default.

### One-to-Many (1-n)

A 1-n relationship is defined by a field of type `EntityType` in one entity and `EntityType[]` in the other. For example consider Car and User entities assume that a car can have only one owner and a user can own multiple cars.

```ballerina
type Car record {|
   readonly int id;
   string name;
   User owner;
|};

type User record {|
   readonly int id;
   string name;
   Car[] cars;
|};
```

> The above entities explains the following,

Author: ```suggestion
The above entities explain the following.
```

- A `Car` must have a `User` as the owner.

> - A `User` may own multiple `Car`s or do not own one. (Represented with empty array `[]`)

Author: ```suggestion
- A `User` may own multiple `Car`s or do not own one (represented with an empty array `[]`).
```

The Ballerina record type generated from the above entities will be as follows,

```ballerina
type Car record {|
   readonly int id;
   string name;
   int ownerId;
|};

type User record {|
   readonly int id;
   string name;
|};
```

> The entity that contains the field of type `EntityType` is taken as the owner in the 1-n relationship and will include the foreign key.

Author: ```suggestion
The entity that contains the field of the `EntityType` is taken as the owner in the `1-n` relationship and will include the foreign key.
```

The default foreign key field name will be `ownerId` in the `Car` table, which refers to the identity field of the `User` table by default.

> ### Many-to-Many (n-n)

Author: ```suggestion
### Many-to-Many (`n-n`)
```
